docs/cluster_guides/running_jobs/storage_compression.md, before:

# Storage and compression

## Storage

[Disk storage guide](../storage/disk_storage_guide.md)

???- question "How does automatic backup of project areas work at UPPMAX?"

    [Backup](../backup.md)

???- question "What is this 'glob' folder in my home folder?"

    - The glob directory found in your home has been deprecated since early 2017.
    - It is now a normal directory and shared your default 32GByte sized home.
    - The glob directory remains to not interfere with scripts who might reference ~/glob in the source code.

    - Historically, the glob directory was the main storage area for storage of user data.
        - It was shared by all nodes.
        - The directory was used for files needed by all job instances and could house files exceeding the quota of the home directory.
        - Job input and output files was (and can still be) stored here.

    - You might also be interested in our [disk storage guide](../storage/disk_storage_guide.md).

## Compression

???- question "File compression guide"

    [Compression guide](../storage/compress_guide.md)

???- question "How can I compress my files as quickly and efficiently as possible?"

    - You can use this [SBATCH script](https://github.com/brainstorm/scilifelab/blob/master/scripts/sbatch/compress_pbzip2.sh) [1] to run the compression in parallel as a node job, with a parallel version of the highly efficient bzip2 compression software.

    - Remember to modify the appropriate #SBATCH parameters at the top of the file, according to your project, and the estimated time to compress your files.

    - [1] Thanks Roman Valls Guimera, for contributing this script.

???- question "How should I compress FastQ-format files?"

     [Compress FastQ](../storage/compress_fastQ.md)

???- question "Which compression format should I use for NGS-related files (FastQ, Fasta, VCF, GFF, etc.)?"

     [Compression format](../storage/compress_format.md)

Commit message:

storage_compression.md quota exceeded

docs/cluster_guides/running_jobs/storage_compression.md, after:

# Storage and compression

## Storage

[Disk storage guide](../storage/disk_storage_guide.md)

???- question "How does automatic backup of project areas work at UPPMAX?"

    [Backup](../backup.md)

???- question "What is this 'glob' folder in my home folder?"

    - The glob directory found in your home has been deprecated since early 2017.
    - It is now a normal directory and shared your default 32GByte sized home.
    - The glob directory remains to not interfere with scripts who might reference ~/glob in the source code.

    - Historically, the glob directory was the main storage area for storage of user data.
        - It was shared by all nodes.
        - The directory was used for files needed by all job instances and could house files exceeding the quota of the home directory.
        - Job input and output files was (and can still be) stored here.

    - You might also be interested in our [disk storage guide](../storage/disk_storage_guide.md).

???- question "Disk quota exceeded when copying data"

    **The problem**
    
    If you have data in a project directory, e.g. /proj/snic2017-1-999, and are copying the data to another project directory, e.g. /proj/uppstore2017-999, then you may get a "disk quota exceeded" error.
    
    **The cause**
    
    This happens when your (snic2017-1-999) project quota is almost full and you're copying the data without changing the group ownership of the files. Even though the destination folder is owned by a project with sufficient quota, the files will for a short time be owned by the original project. By copying the files, the earlier project's disk usage is increased and the quota is exceeded.
    **The solution**
    
    We offer three options:
    
    1. Use mv instead of cp.
    2. Give the --no-g to rsync to set the group ownership of the destination files to that of the destination directory
    3. Use newgroup the-group-i-want to change the group ownership of the files first, then rsync -rlpt /old-location /new-location
    
    Explanation:
        -r is for recursive
        -l is to preserve links
        -p is to preserve permissions
        -t is to preserve times 
    

## Compression

???- question "File compression guide"

    [Compression guide](../storage/compress_guide.md)

???- question "How can I compress my files as quickly and efficiently as possible?"

    - You can use this [SBATCH script](https://github.com/brainstorm/scilifelab/blob/master/scripts/sbatch/compress_pbzip2.sh) [1] to run the compression in parallel as a node job, with a parallel version of the highly efficient bzip2 compression software.

    - Remember to modify the appropriate #SBATCH parameters at the top of the file, according to your project, and the estimated time to compress your files.

    - [1] Thanks Roman Valls Guimera, for contributing this script.

???- question "How should I compress FastQ-format files?"

     [Compress FastQ](../storage/compress_fastQ.md)

???- question "Which compression format should I use for NGS-related files (FastQ, Fasta, VCF, GFF, etc.)?"

     [Compression format](../storage/compress_format.md)
