docs/software/bianca_file_transfer_using_winscp.md, before:

---
tags:
  - transfer
  - data transfer
  - file transfer
  - Bianca
  - WinSCP
---

# File transfer to/from Bianca using WinSCP

Download and install [WinSCP](https://winscp.net/eng/docs/guide_install)

![WinSCP](../img/winscp-snaphot1.png)

WinSCP is a secure file transfer tool that works under Windows.

To transfer files to/from [Bianca](../cluster_guides/bianca.md) using WinSCP, do the following steps:

## 1. Get inside SUNET

Get inside SUNET.

???- question "Forgot how to get within SUNET?"

    See the 'get inside the university networks' page [here](../getting_started/get_inside_sunet.md)

## 2. Start WinSCP

Start WinSCP.

## 3. Create a new site

In WinSCP, click on 'Create new site'.

For that site, use all standards, except:

- Set file protocol to 'SFTP'
- Set host name to `bianca-sftp.uppmax.uu.se`
- Set user name to `[username]-[project]`, e.g. `sven-sens123456`
- **Do not set password! Provide your UPPMAX password followed immediately by the UPPMAX 2FA  when asked by the interactive login.**

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks like this:

    ![WinSCP](./img/winscp-snaphot1.png)

## 4. Transfer files

Now you can transfer files between your local computer and [your `wharf` folder](../cluster_guides/wharf.md).

Commit message:

adding useful links and explanations to winscp and filezilla for bianca

docs/software/bianca_file_transfer_using_winscp.md, after:

---
tags:
  - transfer
  - data transfer
  - file transfer
  - Bianca
  - WinSCP
---

# File transfer to/from Bianca using WinSCP

Download and install from [UU Software Center](https://www.uu.se/en/staff/service-and-tools/tools-and-guides/manage-and-update-your-windows-computer/installing-or-ordering-software-windows).

You can also download the software from [WinSCP](https://winscp.net/eng/docs/guide_install) website.

![WinSCP](../img/winscp-snaphot1.png)

WinSCP is a secure file transfer tool that works under Windows.

To transfer files to/from [Bianca](../cluster_guides/bianca.md) using WinSCP, do the following steps:

## Procedure

???- question "Would you like a video?"

    If you like to see how to do file transfer from/to Bianca
    using FileZilla, watch the video
    [here](https://youtu.be/V-iPQLjvByc?si=OMyH3REu-SoFQeI9)

To transfer files to/from Bianca using FileZilla, do the following steps:

### 1. Get inside SUNET

Get inside SUNET.

???- question "Forgot how to get within SUNET?"

    See the 'get inside the university networks' page [here](../getting_started/get_inside_sunet.md)

### 2. Start WinSCP

Start WinSCP.

### 3. Create a new site

In WinSCP, click on 'Create new site'.

For that site, use all standards, except:

- Set file protocol to 'SFTP'
- Set host name to `bianca-sftp.uppmax.uu.se`
- Set user name to `[username]-[project]`, e.g. `sven-sens123456`
- **Do not set password! Provide your UPPMAX password followed immediately by the UPPMAX 2FA  when asked by the interactive login.**

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks like this:

    ![WinSCP](./img/winscp-snaphot1.png)

### 4. Click 'Connect'

In WinSCP, click 'Connect'

You will be asked for your password with two-factor identification, hence
type `[your password][2FA code]`, e.g. `VerySecret123456`.

Now you can transfer files between your local computer and [your `wharf` folder](../cluster_guides/wharf.md).
