docs/workshops_courses/workshops_courses.md, before:

# Workshops and courses

At UPPMAX, we teach, by providing workshops and courses.
This page gives an overview of these.

## UPPMAX Local

The courses on how to use our local clusters,
such as Rackham and Snowy.

- [Introduction to UPPMAX and Linux](uppmax_intro_course.md)

    - [Content of day 1](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_day_1/)

## NAISS-Sens

The courses on how to use Bianca,
a NAISS HPC cluster for sensitive data.

- [Introduction to Bianca](bianca_intro.md)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/intro/)

## NAISS centre agnostic

UPPMAX is part of NAISS and we do teach things that apply
to all NAISS HPC clusters.

### Getting started

- [Connecting and file transfer](naiss_connect_transfer.md)

### Programming

#### Python

- [Intro to Python](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/)

- [HPC-Python](https://www.uu.se/centrum/uppmax/utbildning/kurser-och-workshops/hpc-python)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html)

#### Other

- [Introduction to running R, MATLAB, and Julia in HPC](R_matlab_julia.md)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html)
- [Programming formalisms](https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms_intro/index.html)
- [To awk or not](https://pmitev.github.io/to-awk-or-not/)
- [Basic Singularity](https://pmitev.github.io/UPPMAX-Singularity-workshop/)

## Other centers

- [HPC2N courses](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses)
- [CodeRefinery workshops](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/)
- [ENCCS training events](https://enccs.se/events)
- [ENCCS Lessons](https://enccs.se/lessons/)
- [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/)
- [Learn X in Y minutes lessons](https://learnxinyminutes.com)
- [Swedish Science Cloud training](https://github.com/SNICScienceCloud/technical-training)

Commit message:

Mention course websites hold the date

docs/workshops_courses/workshops_courses.md, after:

# Workshops and courses

At UPPMAX, we teach, by providing workshops and courses.
This page gives an overview of these.

Course dates are (or should be) provided at each course's website.

## UPPMAX Local

The courses on how to use our local clusters,
such as Rackham and Snowy.

- [Introduction to UPPMAX and Linux](uppmax_intro_course.md)

    - [Content of day 1](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_day_1/)

## NAISS-Sens

The courses on how to use Bianca,
a NAISS HPC cluster for sensitive data.

- [Introduction to Bianca](bianca_intro.md)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/bianca_workshops/intro/)

## NAISS centre agnostic

UPPMAX is part of NAISS and we do teach things that apply
to all NAISS HPC clusters.

### Getting started

- [Connecting and file transfer](naiss_connect_transfer.md)

### Programming

#### Python

- [Intro to Python](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_python/)

- [HPC-Python](https://www.uu.se/centrum/uppmax/utbildning/kurser-och-workshops/hpc-python)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html)

#### Other

- [Introduction to running R, MATLAB, and Julia in HPC](R_matlab_julia.md)
    - [Course material](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/index.html)
- [Programming formalisms](https://uppmax.github.io/programming_formalisms_intro/index.html)
- [To awk or not](https://pmitev.github.io/to-awk-or-not/)
- [Basic Singularity](https://pmitev.github.io/UPPMAX-Singularity-workshop/)

## Other centers

- [HPC2N courses](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses)
- [CodeRefinery workshops](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/)
- [ENCCS training events](https://enccs.se/events)
- [ENCCS Lessons](https://enccs.se/lessons/)
- [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/)
- [Learn X in Y minutes lessons](https://learnxinyminutes.com)
- [Swedish Science Cloud training](https://github.com/SNICScienceCloud/technical-training)
