docs/courses_workshops/courses_workshops.md, before:

---
tags:
  - courses
  - workshops
  - teaching
  - classes
  - sessions
---

# Courses and workshops

At UPPMAX, we teach, by providing workshops and courses.
This page gives an overview of these.

Course dates are (or should be) provided at each course's website.

- [Intro UPPMAX](uppmax_intro_course.md)

## Upcoming courses administered by UPPMAX

### August

[Introduction to Linux and UPPMAX <br> _Aug 25-27_](uppmax_intro_course.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Awk workshop <br> _Aug 28-29_](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/awk/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### September

[Log in and transfer files to/from HPC Clusters <br> _Sep 5_](naiss_transfer.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Introduction to Bianca: Handling Sensitive Research Data <br> _Sep 15_](bianca_intro.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### October

[Introduction to running R, MATLAB, and Julia in HPC <br> _Oct 6+8-10_](R_matlab_julia.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Basic Singularity: Running and building Singularity containers <br> _Oct 13_](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/singularity/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Introduction to Python <br> _Oct 14_](intro_to_python.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Programming formalisms <br> _Oct 23-24 + 27-29_](programming_formalisms.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### November

[Bianca In-Depth Workshop/Hackathon: <br> Improve Your Handling of Sensitive Research Data <br> _Nov 18_](bianca_intermediate.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Using Python in an HPC environment part 2 <br> _Nov 27-28_](hpc_python.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### December

[Using Python in an HPC environment part 1 <br> _Dec 1-2_](hpc_python.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

## About the courses

### Learn UPPMAX systems

The courses on how to use our local clusters,
such as Rackham and Snowy.

- [Introduction to Linux and UPPMAX](uppmax_intro_course.md)
- [Whisper for transcriptions](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/software/whisper)


### NAISS-Sens

The courses on how to use Bianca,
a NAISS HPC cluster for sensitive data.

- [Introduction to Bianca: Handling Sensitive Research Data](bianca_intro.md)
- [Bianca In-Depth Workshop/Hackathon: Improve Your Handling of Sensitive Research Data](bianca_intermediate.md)

### Learn Linux and tools

- [NAISS Introduction to LINUX](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/2/linux-intro)
- [NAISS Intermediate Bash and Linux](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/intermediate-linux)
- [NAISS File transfer](naiss_transfer.md)
- [Awk workshop](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/awk/)
- [Basic Singularity](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/singularity/)

### General Programming

- [Intro to Python](intro_to_python.md)
- [Programming formalisms](programming_formalisms.md)


### Programming in HPC environments

UPPMAX is part of NAISS and we do teach things that apply
to all NAISS HPC clusters.

- [HPC-Python](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/hpc_python/)
- [Introduction to running R, MATLAB, and Julia in HPC](R_matlab_julia.md)

### Other centers and organizations

[The NAISS calendar](https://www.naiss.se/events/) shows all NAISS courses ans also Zoom-ins (virtual open house)


- [HPC2N courses](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses)
- [CodeRefinery workshops](https://coderefinery.org/workshops/upcoming/)
- [ENCCS training events](https://enccs.se/events)
- [ENCCS Lessons](https://enccs.se/lessons/)
- [Codecademy](https://www.codecademy.com/)
- [Learn X in Y minutes lessons](https://learnxinyminutes.com)
- [Swedish Science Cloud training](https://github.com/SNICScienceCloud/technical-training)

Commit message:

Link to Score user doc, as that aggregates the existing links in one page

docs/courses_workshops/courses_workshops.md, after:

---
tags:
  - courses
  - workshops
  - teaching
  - classes
  - sessions
---

# Courses and workshops

At UPPMAX, we teach, by providing workshops and courses.
This page gives an overview of these.

Course dates are (or should be) provided at each course's website.

- [Intro UPPMAX](uppmax_intro_course.md)

## Upcoming courses administered by UPPMAX

### August

[Introduction to Linux and UPPMAX <br> _Aug 25-27_](uppmax_intro_course.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Awk workshop <br> _Aug 28-29_](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/awk/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### September

[Log in and transfer files to/from HPC Clusters <br> _Sep 5_](naiss_transfer.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Introduction to Bianca: Handling Sensitive Research Data <br> _Sep 15_](bianca_intro.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### October

[Introduction to running R, MATLAB, and Julia in HPC <br> _Oct 6+8-10_](R_matlab_julia.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Basic Singularity: Running and building Singularity containers <br> _Oct 13_](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/singularity/){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Introduction to Python <br> _Oct 14_](intro_to_python.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Programming formalisms <br> _Oct 23-24 + 27-29_](programming_formalisms.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### November

[Bianca In-Depth Workshop/Hackathon: <br> Improve Your Handling of Sensitive Research Data <br> _Nov 18_](bianca_intermediate.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[Using Python in an HPC environment part 2 <br> _Nov 27-28_](hpc_python.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

### December

[Using Python in an HPC environment part 1 <br> _Dec 1-2_](hpc_python.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

## About the courses

### Learn UPPMAX systems

The courses on how to use our local clusters,
such as Rackham and Snowy.

- [Introduction to Linux and UPPMAX](uppmax_intro_course.md)
- [Whisper for transcriptions](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/software/whisper)


### NAISS-Sens

The courses on how to use Bianca,
a NAISS HPC cluster for sensitive data.

- [Introduction to Bianca: Handling Sensitive Research Data](bianca_intro.md)
- [Bianca In-Depth Workshop/Hackathon: Improve Your Handling of Sensitive Research Data](bianca_intermediate.md)

### Learn Linux and tools

- [NAISS Introduction to LINUX](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/2/linux-intro)
- [NAISS Intermediate Bash and Linux](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2025/spring/intermediate-linux)
- [NAISS File transfer](naiss_transfer.md)
- [Awk workshop](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/awk/)
- [Basic Singularity](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/singularity/)

### General Programming

- [Intro to Python](intro_to_python.md)
- [Programming formalisms](programming_formalisms.md)


### Programming in HPC environments

UPPMAX is part of NAISS and we do teach things that apply
to all NAISS HPC clusters.

- [HPC-Python](https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/courses_workshops/hpc_python/)
- [Introduction to running R, MATLAB, and Julia in HPC](R_matlab_julia.md)

### Other centers and organizations

- [The SCoRe user documentation's overview of courses](https://nbisweden.github.io/SCoRe_user_doc/courses/)
  shows all NAISS, SciLifeLab, ENCSS and more courses
- [The NAISS calendar](https://www.naiss.se/events/)
  shows all NAISS courses and also Zoom-ins (virtual open house)
