docs/courses_workshops/hpc_python.md, before:

# Using Python in an HPC environment

This course aims to give a brief, but comprehensive introduction to using Python in an HPC environment. You will learn how to use modules to load Python, how to find site installed Python packages, as well as how to install packages yourself. In addition, you will learn how to use virtual environments, write a batch script for running Python, use Python in parallel, and how to use Python for ML and on GPUs.

The course is a cooperation between UPPMAX, HPC2N and LUNARC. The instructors will use UPPMAX, HPC2N, LUNARC and NSC systems for demos and there will be hands-on exercises for the participants.

This course will consist of lectures interspersed with hands-on sessions where you get to try out what you have just learned.

**Remote/online participation:** The course will be completely online and we will use Zoom. More information about connecting and such will be sent to the participants close to the course.

**The goal** for the course is that you will be able to

- Load Python modules and site-installed Python packages
- Create a virtual environment
- Install Python packages with pip and/or conda
- Write a batch script for running Python
- Use Python in parallel
- Use Python for ML
- Use GPUs with Python
- Use Pandas
- Python and big data

**Prerequisites:** familiarity with the LINUX command line, basic Python

**Materials:**

Day|Course materials                                    |More info
---|----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------
1  |[here](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python)|[here](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/faq/)
2-4|[here](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/)        |[here](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2024/fall/hpc-python)

Time and date: Thursday 24-Friday 25 April and Monday 28-Tuesday 29 April, 09:00-17:00 each day

**On-boarding:** TBD

**Location:** ONLINE. Zoom link will be sent to participants a few days before the course.

**Instructors:** Birgitte Brydsö, Björn Claremar, Jayant Yadav, Pedro Ojeda-May, Rebeccas Pitts, Richèl Bilderbeek

Commit message:

adding Anders Hast as instructor for HPC python course

docs/courses_workshops/hpc_python.md, after:

# Using Python in an HPC environment

This course aims to give a brief, but comprehensive introduction to using Python in an HPC environment. You will learn how to use modules to load Python, how to find site installed Python packages, as well as how to install packages yourself. In addition, you will learn how to use virtual environments, write a batch script for running Python, use Python in parallel, and how to use Python for ML and on GPUs.

The course is a cooperation between UPPMAX, HPC2N, LUNARC and InfraVis. The instructors will use UPPMAX, HPC2N, LUNARC and NSC systems for demos and there will be hands-on exercises for the participants.

This course will consist of lectures interspersed with hands-on sessions where you get to try out what you have just learned.

**Remote/online participation:** The course will be completely online and we will use Zoom. More information about connecting and such will be sent to the participants close to the course.

**The goal** for the course is that you will be able to

- Load Python modules and site-installed Python packages
- Create a virtual environment
- Install Python packages with pip and/or conda
- Write a batch script for running Python
- Use Python in parallel
- Use Python for ML and dimensionality reduction
- Use GPUs with Python
- Use Pandas
- Python and big data

**Prerequisites:** familiarity with the LINUX command line, basic Python

**Materials:**

Day|Course materials                                    |More info
---|----------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------
1  |[here](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python)|[here](https://uppmax.github.io/naiss_intro_python/faq/)
2-4|[here](https://uppmax.github.io/HPC-python/)        |[here](https://www.hpc2n.umu.se/events/courses/2024/fall/hpc-python)

Time and date: Thursday 24-Friday 25 April and Monday 28-Tuesday 29 April, 09:00-17:00 each day

**On-boarding:** TBD

**Location:** ONLINE. Zoom link will be sent to participants a few days before the course.

**Instructors:** Birgitte Brydsö, Björn Claremar, Jayant Yadav, Pedro Ojeda-May, Rebeccas Pitts, Richèl Bilderbeek, Anders Hast(InfraVis)
