docs/courses_workshops/naiss_transfer.md, before:

# Transferring Files to/from HPC Clusters

In this 3-hour workshop you learn to transfer files to or from Swedish academic HPC clusters. We will cover graphical as well as terminal tools and you will work highly interactively. At the end of the day, you should be comfortable in transferring files between local computer and a cluster and cross-clusters, and choosing the right tool for your use cases.

The workshop is intended for beginner users but with some Linux experience, see the course link below. You do not need to be a member of a NAISS project in order to join the workshop. A course project on one of the NAISS clusters will be available to those.

## Prerequisites:

- Be able to log in in one way (instructions when you get an account)
- Be able to navigate the filesystem under Linux
    - example linux material: https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_day_1/sessions/use_terminal/ and exercise 1-3

## Next course instance

When: 7 March, 2025, 9.00-12.00
Where: Online via Zoom

[Registration](https://forms.gle/LuQBE3u2NbpqnThVA)

Course material: TBA

## Coming course instances

- Friday May 16th 9:00-12:00 (week 20)
- Friday Sep 5th (week 36)
- Friday 14 Nov (week 46)

Commit message:

naiss_transfer.md schedule overview

docs/courses_workshops/naiss_transfer.md, after:

# Transferring Files to/from HPC Clusters

In this 3-hour workshop you learn to transfer files to or from Swedish academic HPC clusters. We will cover graphical as well as terminal tools and you will work highly interactively. At the end of the day, you should be comfortable in transferring files between local computer and a cluster and cross-clusters, and choosing the right tool for your use cases.

The workshop is intended for beginner users but with some Linux experience, see the course link below. You do not need to be a member of a NAISS project in order to join the workshop. A course project on one of the NAISS clusters will be available to those.

## Prerequisites:

- Be able to log in in one way (instructions when you get an account)
- Be able to navigate the filesystem under Linux
    - example linux material: https://uppmax.github.io/uppmax_intro_day_1/sessions/use_terminal/ and exercise 1-3
 
## Preliminary schedule overview

- FileZilla
- Log in with terminal and file transfer using rsync
- File transfer using scp and sftp

## Coming course instance

When: 7 March, 2025, 9.00-12.00
Where: Online via Zoom

[Registration](https://forms.gle/LuQBE3u2NbpqnThVA)

Course material: TBA

## Coming course instances

- Friday May 16th 9:00-12:00 (week 20)
- Friday Sep 5th (week 36)
- Friday 14 Nov (week 46)
