docs/cluster_guides/bianca.md, before:

# Bianca

![Bianca Castafiore, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bianca_Castafiore-Tintin_comics_series.png](./img/bianca_castafiore_192_x_226.png)

[Bianca](bianca.md) is one of the [UPPMAX clusters](uppmax_cluster.md),
suitable for working with sensitive data.

- [Bianca's name](biancas_name.md)
- [Bianca's design](biancas_design.md)
- [Log in](../getting_started/login_bianca.md)
- [Submitting jobs, using Slurm](slurm.md)
- [Starting an interactive node](start_interactive_node_on_bianca.md)
- [File transfer](transfer_bianca.md)
    - [File transfer using rsync](../software/bianca_file_transfer_using_rsync.md) (recommended)
    - [File transfer using FileZilla](../software/bianca_file_transfer_using_filezilla.md) (easiest)
- [The module system](bianca_modules.md)
- [IDEs](../software/ides_on_bianca.md)
    - [Jupyter](../software/jupyter_on_bianca.md)
    - [RStudio](../software/rstudio_on_bianca.md)
    - :no_entry: [VSCode](../software/vscode_on_bianca.md)
    - [VSCodium](../software/vscodium_on_bianca.md)
- [Workshops and courses](../workshops_courses/workshops_courses.md)
- NAISS-sens
- Best practices
    - [Git on Bianca](../software/git_on_bianca.md)
- Bianca installation guides

Commit message:

Add Pelle and Maja info as rough notes

docs/cluster_guides/bianca.md, after:

# Bianca

![Bianca Castafiore, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Bianca_Castafiore-Tintin_comics_series.png](./img/bianca_castafiore_192_x_226.png)

[Bianca](bianca.md) is one of the [UPPMAX clusters](uppmax_cluster.md),
suitable for working with sensitive data.

In the near future, Bianca will be replaced by [Maja](maja.md).

- [Bianca's name](biancas_name.md)
- [Bianca's design](biancas_design.md)
- [Log in](../getting_started/login_bianca.md)
- [Submitting jobs, using Slurm](slurm.md)
- [Starting an interactive node](start_interactive_node_on_bianca.md)
- [File transfer](transfer_bianca.md)
    - [File transfer using rsync](../software/bianca_file_transfer_using_rsync.md) (recommended)
    - [File transfer using FileZilla](../software/bianca_file_transfer_using_filezilla.md) (easiest)
- [The module system](bianca_modules.md)
- [IDEs](../software/ides_on_bianca.md)
    - [Jupyter](../software/jupyter_on_bianca.md)
    - [RStudio](../software/rstudio_on_bianca.md)
    - :no_entry: [VSCode](../software/vscode_on_bianca.md)
    - [VSCodium](../software/vscodium_on_bianca.md)
- [Workshops and courses](../workshops_courses/workshops_courses.md)
- NAISS-sens
- Best practices
    - [Git on Bianca](../software/git_on_bianca.md)
- Bianca installation guides
