docs/cluster_guides/pelle.md, before:

---
tags:
  - Pelle
  - cluster
  - general-purpose
---

# Pelle

![Image of Pelle Svanslös, from https://www.comics.org/issue/105368/cover/4](./img/pelle.jpg)

???- question "Why such a bad image?"

    Copyright. This is one of the few images that shows Pelle Svanslös
    with a Creative Commons license.

Pelle is an upcoming general-purpose UPPMAX cluster,
paid by Uppsala University.

Uppsala users of [Rackham](rackham.md) will be moved to Pelle
by UPPMAX after [applying to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md).

Non-Uppsala users of [Rackham](rackham.md) can move their data to
Dardel, see [the Rackham to Dardel migration guide](../cluster_guides/dardel_migration.md).

!!! warning "What is the status of Pelle?"

    See [here](https://status.uppmax.uu.se/2025-04-09/pelle/)

## [How to apply to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md)

See [how to apply to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md).

## Features of Pelle, compared to Rackham

Although we from UPPMAX cannot say exactly how Pelle will look,
we try to have Pelle be as similar to [Rackham](rackham.md) as possible.

## Migration from Rackham to Pelle

As both clusters are UPPMAX clusters,
we will transfer your data from [Rackham](rackham.md)
to Pelle. Users will have to [apply to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md).

Commit message:

Add link to login Pelle

docs/cluster_guides/pelle.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Pelle
  - cluster
  - general-purpose
---

# Pelle

![Image of Pelle Svanslös, from https://www.comics.org/issue/105368/cover/4](./img/pelle.jpg)

???- question "Why such a bad image?"

    Copyright. This is one of the few images that shows Pelle Svanslös
    with a Creative Commons license.

Pelle is an upcoming general-purpose UPPMAX cluster,
paid by Uppsala University.

Uppsala users of [Rackham](rackham.md) will be moved to Pelle
by UPPMAX after [applying to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md).

Non-Uppsala users of [Rackham](rackham.md) can move their data to
Dardel, see [the Rackham to Dardel migration guide](../cluster_guides/dardel_migration.md).

!!! warning "What is the status of Pelle?"

    See [here](https://status.uppmax.uu.se/2025-04-09/pelle/)

## [How to apply to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md)

See [how to apply to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md).

## [How to log in to a Pelle](../getting_started/login_pelle.md)

See [how to log in to a Pelle](../getting_started/login_pelle.md).

## Features of Pelle, compared to Rackham

Although we from UPPMAX cannot say exactly how Pelle will look,
we try to have Pelle be as similar to [Rackham](rackham.md) as possible.

## Migration from Rackham to Pelle

As both clusters are UPPMAX clusters,
we will transfer your data from [Rackham](rackham.md)
to Pelle. Users will have to [apply to a Pelle project](../getting_started/project_apply_pelle.md).
