docs/cluster_guides/rackham.md, before:

---
tags:
  - Rackham
  - cluster
  - general-purpose
---

# Rackham

![Red Rackham, from https://tintin.fandom.com/wiki/Red_Rackham](./img/red_rackham_103_x_238.jpg)

Rackham is one of the [UPPMAX clusters](uppmax_cluster.md)
that is a general-purpose cluster.

Rackham is replaced by [Pelle](pelle.md) at around 2025-10-01.

- [Rackham's name](rackhams_name.md)
- [Rackham's design](rackhams_design.md)
- [Rackham's hardware](../hardware/clusters/rackham.md)
- [Log in](../getting_started/login_rackham.md)
- [Starting an interactive session](start_interactive_session_on_rackham.md)
- [File transfer](transfer_rackham.md)
    - [using a graphical program](rackham_file_transfer_using_gui.md)
    - [using SCP](../software/rackham_file_transfer_using_scp.md)
    - [using SFTP](../software/rackham_file_transfer_using_sftp.md)
- [The module system](rackham_modules.md)
- [IDEs](../software/ides_on_rackham.md)
    - [Jupyter](../software/jupyter.md)
    - [RStudio](../software/rstudio_on_rackham.md)
    - [VSCode](../software/vscode_on_rackham.md)
    - :no_entry: [VSCodium](../software/vscodium_on_rackham.md)
- Isolated environments
    - [venv](../software/venv_on_rackham.md)
- [Run webexport](webexport.md)
- Best practices
- Rackham installation guides
- Rackham workshops

Commit message:

Mention intended shutdown date for Rackham and Snowy

docs/cluster_guides/rackham.md, after:

---
tags:
  - Rackham
  - cluster
  - general-purpose
---

# Rackham

![Red Rackham, from https://tintin.fandom.com/wiki/Red_Rackham](./img/red_rackham_103_x_238.jpg)

!!! warning "Shutdown of Rackham"

    From [the UPPMAX January 2026 newletter](https://status.uppmax.uu.se/2025-12-18/january-maintenance/):

    > We intend to shut down Rackham [...] completely on January 30th.

Rackham is one of the [UPPMAX clusters](uppmax_cluster.md)
that is a general-purpose cluster.

Rackham is replaced by [Pelle](pelle.md) at around 2025-10-01.

- [Rackham's name](rackhams_name.md)
- [Rackham's design](rackhams_design.md)
- [Rackham's hardware](../hardware/clusters/rackham.md)
- [Log in](../getting_started/login_rackham.md)
- [Starting an interactive session](start_interactive_session_on_rackham.md)
- [File transfer](transfer_rackham.md)
    - [using a graphical program](rackham_file_transfer_using_gui.md)
    - [using SCP](../software/rackham_file_transfer_using_scp.md)
    - [using SFTP](../software/rackham_file_transfer_using_sftp.md)
- [The module system](rackham_modules.md)
- [IDEs](../software/ides_on_rackham.md)
    - [Jupyter](../software/jupyter.md)
    - [RStudio](../software/rstudio_on_rackham.md)
    - [VSCode](../software/vscode_on_rackham.md)
    - :no_entry: [VSCodium](../software/vscodium_on_rackham.md)
- Isolated environments
    - [venv](../software/venv_on_rackham.md)
- [Run webexport](webexport.md)
- Best practices
- Rackham installation guides
- Rackham workshops
