docs/cluster_guides/slurm.md, before:

# Run on the calculation nodes (Slurm)

## Slurm Commands

The Slurm system is accessed using the following commands:

* `interactive` - Start an interactive session. This is described
  in-depth for [Bianca](start_interactive_node_on_bianca.md)
  and [Rackham](start_interactive_node_on_rackham.md)
* `sbatch` - Submit and run a batch job script
* `srun` - Typically used inside batch job scripts for running parallel jobs
  (See examples further down)
* `scancel` - Cancel one or more of your jobs.

```mermaid
flowchart TD

    %% Give a white background to all nodes, instead of a transparent one
    classDef node fill:#fff,color:#000,stroke:#000

    %% Graph nodes for files and calculations
    classDef file_node fill:#fcf,color:#000,stroke:#f0f
    classDef calculation_node fill:#ccf,color:#000,stroke:#00f

    subgraph sub_inside[IP inside SUNET]
      subgraph sub_cluster_env[Cluster environment]
        login_node(User on login node)
        interactive_node(User on interactive node)
        computation_node(Computation node):::calculation_node
      end
    end

    %% Shared subgraph color scheme
    %% style sub_outside fill:#ccc,color:#000,stroke:#ccc
    style sub_inside fill:#fcc,color:#000,stroke:#fcc
    style sub_cluster_env fill:#ffc,color:#000,stroke:#ffc

    login_node --> |move user, interative|interactive_node
    login_node ==> |submit jobs, sbatch|computation_node
    computation_node -.-> |can become| interactive_node
```

> The different types of nodes an UPPMAX cluster has.
> White nodes: nodes a user can interact with.
> Blue nodes: nodes a user cannot interact with.
> The thick edge shows the topic of this page:
> how to submit jobs to a computation node.

### Specifying job parameters

Whether you use the UPPMAX clusters interactively or in batch mode, you always
have to specify a few things, like number of cores needed, running time etc.
These things can be specified in two ways:

Either as flags sent to the different Slurm commands (`sbatch`, `srun`, the
`interactive` command, etc.), like so:

``` bash
sbatch -A p2012999 -p core -n 1 -t 12:00:00 -J some_job_name my_job_script_file.sh
```

or, when using the `sbatch` command, it can be specified inside the job script
file itself, by using special `SBATCH` comments, for example:

``` bash title="job_script.sh"
#!/bin/bash -l
 
#SBATCH -A p2012999
#SBATCH -p core
#SBATCH -n 1
#SBATCH -t 12:00:00
#SBATCH -J some_job_name

```

If doing this, then one will only need to start the script like so, without any
flags:

``` bash
sbatch job_script.sh
```

Commit message:

Introduce SLURM, link to specialized pages

docs/cluster_guides/slurm.md, after:

# Run on the calculation nodes (Slurm)

The UPPMAX clusters are a shared resource.
To ensure fair use, UPPMAX uses a scheduling system.
A scheduling system decides at what time which calculation is done.
The software used is called Slurm or SLURM.

This page describes how to use Slurm in general.
For more specific information, see:

- Slurm on Bianca
- Slurm on Rackham
- [Slurm on Snowy](slurm_snowy.md)

## Slurm Commands

The Slurm system is accessed using the following commands:

* `interactive` - Start an interactive session. This is described
  in-depth for [Bianca](start_interactive_node_on_bianca.md)
  and [Rackham](start_interactive_node_on_rackham.md)
* `sbatch` - Submit and run a batch job script
* `srun` - Typically used inside batch job scripts for running parallel jobs
  (See examples further down)
* `scancel` - Cancel one or more of your jobs.

```mermaid
flowchart TD

    %% Give a white background to all nodes, instead of a transparent one
    classDef node fill:#fff,color:#000,stroke:#000

    %% Graph nodes for files and calculations
    classDef file_node fill:#fcf,color:#000,stroke:#f0f
    classDef calculation_node fill:#ccf,color:#000,stroke:#00f

    subgraph sub_inside[IP inside SUNET]
      subgraph sub_cluster_env[Cluster environment]
        login_node(User on login node)
        interactive_node(User on interactive node)
        computation_node(Computation node):::calculation_node
      end
    end

    %% Shared subgraph color scheme
    %% style sub_outside fill:#ccc,color:#000,stroke:#ccc
    style sub_inside fill:#fcc,color:#000,stroke:#fcc
    style sub_cluster_env fill:#ffc,color:#000,stroke:#ffc

    login_node --> |move user, interative|interactive_node
    login_node ==> |submit jobs, sbatch|computation_node
    computation_node -.-> |can become| interactive_node
```

> The different types of nodes an UPPMAX cluster has.
> White nodes: nodes a user can interact with.
> Blue nodes: nodes a user cannot interact with.
> The thick edge shows the topic of this page:
> how to submit jobs to a computation node.

### Specifying job parameters

Whether you use the UPPMAX clusters interactively or in batch mode, you always
have to specify a few things, like number of cores needed, running time etc.
These things can be specified in two ways:

Either as flags sent to the different Slurm commands (`sbatch`, `srun`, the
`interactive` command, etc.), like so:

``` bash
sbatch -A p2012999 -p core -n 1 -t 12:00:00 -J some_job_name my_job_script_file.sh
```

or, when using the `sbatch` command, it can be specified inside the job script
file itself, by using special `SBATCH` comments, for example:

``` bash title="job_script.sh"
#!/bin/bash -l
 
#SBATCH -A p2012999
#SBATCH -p core
#SBATCH -n 1
#SBATCH -t 12:00:00
#SBATCH -J some_job_name

```

If doing this, then one will only need to start the script like so, without any
flags:

``` bash
sbatch job_script.sh
```
