docs/cluster_guides/transit_file_transfer_using_gui.md, before:

# File transfer to/from Transit using a graphical tool

Data transfer to/from Transit using a graphical tool
is one of the ways to transfer files to/from Transit

???- question "What is Transit?"

    See [the page about the UPPMAX Transit server](transit.md).

???- question "What are the other ways?"

    Other ways to transfer data to/from Transit are described [here](transfer_transit.md)

Here, we show how to transfer files using a graphical tool called FileZilla.

![](./img/filezilla_login_to_transit_480_x_270.png)

> FileZilla connected to Transit

## Using FileZilla

![FileZilla logo, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FileZilla#/media/File:FileZilla_logo.svg](./img/filezilla_logo_240_x_240.png)

> The FileZilla logo

???- question "Would you like a video?"

    If you like to see how to do file tranfer from/to Transit
    using FileZilla, watch the video 
    [here](https://youtu.be/7wHRCMdnNZE)

FileZilla is a secure file transfer tool that works under Linux, Mac and Windows.

To transfer files to/from Transit using FileZilla, do:

### 1. Get inside SUNET

???- question "Forgot how to get inside SUNET?"

    It is discussed [at the 'login to Bianca' page](login_bianca.md). 

### 2. Start FileZilla

### 3. From the menu, select 'File | Site manager'

???- tip "Where is that?"

    It is here:

    ![](./img/filezilla_file_site_manager.png)
    
    > The FileZilla 'File' menu contains the item 'Site manager'

### 4. Click 'New site'

???- tip "Where is that?"

    It is here:

    ![](./img/filezilla_site_manager.png)

### 5. Create a name for the site

Create a name for the site, e.g. `transit`.

### 6. Setup the site

For that site, use all standards, except:

- Set protocol to 'SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol'
- Set host to `transit.uppmax.uu.se`
- Set user to `[username]`, e.g. `richel`

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks similar to this:

    ![](./img/filezilla_setup_transit_richel.png)

### 7. Click 'Connect'

### 8. You will be asked for your password,

You will be asked for your password, hence
type `[your password]`, e.g. `VerySecret`.
You can save the password.

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks similar to this:

    ![](filezilla_enter_password_transit.png)

### 9. Done

Now you can transfer files between your local computer and Transit.

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks like this:

    ![](./img/filezilla_login_to_transit.png)

## Where do my files end up?

They end up in your personal home folder.

Its location is at `/home/[user_name]`,
for example, at `/home/sven`.

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks like this:

    ![](./img/filezilla_file_on_transit.png)

## Extra material

### WinSCP

WinSCP is a secure file transfer tool that works under Windows.

To transfer files to/from Transit using WinSCP, do:

- Start WinSCP
- Create a new site
- For that site, use all standards, except:
    - Set file protocol to 'SFTP'
    - Set host name to `transit.uppmax.uu.se`
    - Set user name to `[username]`, e.g. `richel`

### File transfer overview

```mermaid
flowchart TD

    %% Give a white background to all nodes, instead of a transparent one
    classDef node fill:#fff,color:#000,stroke:#000

    %% Graph nodes for files and calculations
    classDef file_node fill:#fcf,color:#000,stroke:#f0f
    classDef calculation_node fill:#ccf,color:#000,stroke:#00f

    user(User)
      user_local_files(Files on user computer):::file_node

    subgraph sub_inside[SUNET]
      subgraph sub_transit_shared_env[Transit]
          login_node(login/calculation/interactive node):::calculation_node
          files_in_transit_home(Files in Transit home folder):::file_node
      end
    end

    %% Shared subgraph color scheme
    %% style sub_outside fill:#ccc,color:#000,stroke:#ccc
    style sub_inside fill:#fcc,color:#000,stroke:#fcc
    style sub_transit_shared_env fill:#ffc,color:#000,stroke:#ffc

    user --> |logs in |login_node
    user --> |uses| user_local_files

    login_node --> |can use|files_in_transit_home
    user_local_files <==> |graphical tool|files_in_transit_home
    %% user_local_files <--> |SCP|files_in_transit_home
    %% user_local_files <--> |SFTP|files_in_transit_home

    %% Aligns nodes prettier
    user_local_files ~~~ login_node
```

> Overview of file transfer on Transit
> The purple nodes are about file transfer,
> the blue nodes are about 'doing other things'.
> The user can be either inside or outside SUNET.

Commit message:

File transfer Rackham and Transit

docs/cluster_guides/transit_file_transfer_using_gui.md, after:

# File transfer to/from Transit using a graphical tool

Data transfer to/from Transit using a graphical tool
is one of the ways to transfer files to/from Transit

???- question "What is Transit?"

    See [the page about the UPPMAX Transit server](transit.md).

???- question "What are the other ways?"

    Other ways to transfer data to/from Transit are described [here](transfer_transit.md)

Here, we show how to transfer files using a graphical tool called FileZilla.

![](./img/filezilla_login_to_transit_480_x_270.png)

> FileZilla connected to Transit

## Using FileZilla

![FileZilla logo, from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/FileZilla#/media/File:FileZilla_logo.svg](./img/filezilla_logo_240_x_240.png)

> The FileZilla logo

???- question "Would you like a video?"

    If you like to see how to do file tranfer from/to Transit
    using FileZilla, watch the video 
    [here](https://youtu.be/7wHRCMdnNZE)

FileZilla is a secure file transfer tool that works under Linux, Mac and Windows.

To transfer files to/from Transit using FileZilla, do:

### 1. Get inside SUNET

???- question "Forgot how to get inside SUNET?"

    It is discussed [at the 'login to Bianca' page](login_bianca.md). 

### 2. Start FileZilla

### 3. From the menu, select 'File | Site manager'

???- tip "Where is that?"

    It is here:

    ![](./img/filezilla_file_site_manager.png)
    
    > The FileZilla 'File' menu contains the item 'Site manager'

### 4. Click 'New site'

???- tip "Where is that?"

    It is here:

    ![](./img/filezilla_site_manager.png)

### 5. Create a name for the site

Create a name for the site, e.g. Transit.

### 6. Setup the site

For that site, use all standards, except:

- Set protocol to 'SFTP - SSH File Transfer Protocol'
- Set host to `transit.uppmax.uu.se`
- Set user to `[username]`, e.g. `richel`

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks similar to this:

    ![](./img/filezilla_setup_transit_richel.png)

### 7. Click 'Connect'

### 8. You will be asked for your password,

You will be asked for your password, hence
type `[your password]`, e.g. `VerySecret`.
You can save the password.

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks similar to this:

    ![](filezilla_enter_password_transit.png)

### 9. Transfer files between local and Transit

Now you can transfer files between your local computer and Transit.

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks like this:

    ![](./img/filezilla_login_to_transit.png)

## Where do my files end up?

They *seem* to end up in your Transit home folder.

Its location is at `/home/[user_name]`,
for example, at `/home/sven`.

???- tip "How does that look like?"

    It looks like this:

    ![](./img/filezilla_file_on_transit.png)

However, this is not the case: 
upon closing FileZilla,
the files you've uploaded are gone.

You do need to transfer these files to other HPC clusters 
before closing FileZilla. 
For detailed instructions, see the guides at the respective cluster, among others:

 * [Bianca file transfer using Transit](bianca_file_transfer_using_transit.md)
 * [Rackham file transfer using Transit](rackham_file_transfer_using_transit.md)

## Extra material

### WinSCP

WinSCP is a secure file transfer tool that works under Windows.

To transfer files to/from Transit using WinSCP, do:

- Start WinSCP
- Create a new site
- For that site, use all standards, except:
    - Set file protocol to 'SFTP'
    - Set host name to `transit.uppmax.uu.se`
    - Set user name to `[username]`, e.g. `richel`

### File transfer overview

```mermaid
flowchart TD

    %% Give a white background to all nodes, instead of a transparent one
    classDef node fill:#fff,color:#000,stroke:#000

    %% Graph nodes for files and calculations
    classDef file_node fill:#fcf,color:#000,stroke:#f0f
    classDef calculation_node fill:#ccf,color:#000,stroke:#00f

    user(User)
      user_local_files(Files on user computer):::file_node

    subgraph sub_inside[SUNET]
      subgraph sub_transit_shared_env[Transit]
          login_node(login/calculation/interactive node):::calculation_node
          files_in_transit_home(Files in Transit home folder):::file_node
      end
    end

    %% Shared subgraph color scheme
    %% style sub_outside fill:#ccc,color:#000,stroke:#ccc
    style sub_inside fill:#fcc,color:#000,stroke:#fcc
    style sub_transit_shared_env fill:#ffc,color:#000,stroke:#ffc

    user --> |logs in |login_node
    user --> |uses| user_local_files

    login_node --> |can use|files_in_transit_home
    user_local_files <==> |graphical tool|files_in_transit_home
    %% user_local_files <--> |SCP|files_in_transit_home
    %% user_local_files <--> |SFTP|files_in_transit_home

    %% Aligns nodes prettier
    user_local_files ~~~ login_node
```

> Overview of file transfer on Transit
> The purple nodes are about file transfer,
> the blue nodes are about 'doing other things'.
> The user can be either inside or outside SUNET.
