docs/getting_started/login_rackham_remote_desktop_local_thinlinc_client.md, before:

# Log in to Rackham's remote desktop environment using a local ThinLinc client

![The Rackham remote desktop environment via a local ThinLinc client](../software/img/thinlinc_local_rackham.png)

There are multiple ways to [log in to Rackham](login_rackham.md).
This page described how to log in to its remote desktop environment
via a local [ThinLinc](../software/thinlinc.md) client.

## Procedure

???- question "Prefer a video?"

    This procedure is also shown by [this YouTube video](https://youtu.be/PqEpsn74l0g).

### 1. Install ThinLinc

Install ThinLinc. For help, see [the UPPMAX page on ThinLinc](../software/thinlinc.md).

### 2. Start ThinLinc

In the ThinLinc login dialog, set the server name to `rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se`.

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![ThinLinc login](../software/img/thinlinc_local_login_rackham.png)

    > The ThinLinc login dialog

???- question "Why not use `https://www.rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se`?"

    Because that does not work :-)

### 3. Forward the ThinLinc Welcome dialog

On the ThinLinc 'Welcome' dialog, click 'Forward'

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![The ThinLinc 'Welcome' dialog](../software/img/thinlinc_local_welcome.png)

### 4. Select a ThinLinc profile

On the ThinLinc 'Select profile' dialog, select a profile:

Profile|Recommendation
-------|--------------
GNOME  |Recommended
KDE    |Avoid
XFCE   |Recommended

!!! warning "Avoid choosing KDE"

    Avoid choosing the KDE desktop, as it gives problems
    when running interactive sessions.

    Instead, we recommend GNOME or XFCE.

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![The ThinLinc 'Select profile' dialog](../software/img/thinlinc_local_select_profile.png)

    > Here you are asked to pick a remote desktop flavor,
    > with Xfce as the default.
    > Pick any, except KDE.

### 5. You are in

You are in! Well done!

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![The Rackham remote desktop environment via a local ThinLinc client](../software/img/thinlinc_local_rackham.png)

## Usage

For tips on how to work with this environment,
see [the UPPMAX ThinLinc page](../software/thinlinc.md).

Commit message:

Link to login node, mention login node behavior

docs/getting_started/login_rackham_remote_desktop_local_thinlinc_client.md, after:

# Log in to Rackham's remote desktop environment using a local ThinLinc client

![The Rackham remote desktop environment via a local ThinLinc client](../software/img/thinlinc_local_rackham.png)

There are multiple ways to [log in to Rackham](login_rackham.md).
This page described how to log in to its remote desktop environment
via a local [ThinLinc](../software/thinlinc.md) client.

## Procedure

???- question "Prefer a video?"

    This procedure is also shown by [this YouTube video](https://youtu.be/PqEpsn74l0g).

### 1. Install ThinLinc

Install ThinLinc. For help, see [the UPPMAX page on ThinLinc](../software/thinlinc.md).

### 2. Start ThinLinc

In the ThinLinc login dialog, set the server name to `rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se`.

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![ThinLinc login](../software/img/thinlinc_local_login_rackham.png)

    > The ThinLinc login dialog

???- question "Why not use `https://www.rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se`?"

    Because that does not work :-)

### 3. Forward the ThinLinc Welcome dialog

On the ThinLinc 'Welcome' dialog, click 'Forward'

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![The ThinLinc 'Welcome' dialog](../software/img/thinlinc_local_welcome.png)

### 4. Select a ThinLinc profile

On the ThinLinc 'Select profile' dialog, select a profile:

Profile|Recommendation
-------|--------------
GNOME  |Recommended
KDE    |Avoid
XFCE   |Recommended

!!! warning "Avoid choosing KDE"

    Avoid choosing the KDE desktop, as it gives problems
    when running interactive sessions.

    Instead, we recommend GNOME or XFCE.

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![The ThinLinc 'Select profile' dialog](../software/img/thinlinc_local_select_profile.png)

    > Here you are asked to pick a remote desktop flavor,
    > with Xfce as the default.
    > Pick any, except KDE.

### 5. You are in

You are in! Well done!

After login, you will be on a [login node](../cluster_guides/login_node.md).

!!! note "How to behave on a login node"

    On a login node, one can and should do simple things only:
    it is a resource shared with all other users on that node.

    If you need to do more intense calculations,
    [use the Slurm job scheduler](../cluster_guides/slurm_on_rackham.md).

    If you need to do more intense calculations interactively,
    [use an interactive node](../cluster_guides/start_interactive_node_on_rackham.md).

???- question "How does that look like?"

    ![The Rackham remote desktop environment via a local ThinLinc client](../software/img/thinlinc_local_rackham.png)

## Usage

For tips on how to work with this environment,
see [the UPPMAX ThinLinc page](../software/thinlinc.md).
