docs/getting_started/login_rackham.md, before:

# Log in to Rackham

!!! info "[Go to the Rackham portal](../cluster_guides/rackham_portal.md)"

    At [the Rackham portal](../cluster_guides/rackham_portal.md) one can 
    learn about using Rackham, for example:

    - How to do data transfer
    - How to make Rackham do a calculation
    - How to develop code on Rackham

!!! info "Objectives"
    - We'll go through platform specific (Mac/Linux/Windows) ways to log in to UPPMAX
    - See different clients
    - Enable graphics

!!! warning
    - If you lack a user account, visit the [Getting started page](https://www.uppmax.uu.se/support/getting-started/course-projects/)

## General understanding

- When logging in to UPPMAX from your local computer you will arrive to your home folder at the login node of an UPPMAX cluster.
- This means that only light analysis and and calculations should be made here.
- You will see this in the prompt after "@" as the clustername and a low number. For instance:

   ``` bash 
     [<user>@rackham3 ~]$
   ```
    
- You will later learn how to reach the calculation nodes. Then the prompt states the node number with a single letter, like "r" for Rackham. For instance:

   ``` bash
      [<user>@r484 ~]
   ```

!!! info "Quick start log in!"
    - Below you find how to log in
    - Further down we present other procedures to reach Rackham, depending on your planned work.
    

## Log in with a terminal, omitting support for graphics  

=== "Mac"

    - Start terminal (e.g. from Launchpad) or [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
      to run [`ssh`](../software/ssh.md)
    
    ``` bash 
    $ ssh <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    - "< >" prompts you to set the keyword specific for you or your needs. In the example above, this is basically your username.

    <!-- ![Terminal](./img/Mac_terminal.png) -->

    - iTerm2 goodies:
    
       - You can save hosts for later.
       - Drag and drop scp
       
=== "Windows"

    - Start a terminal (see below) to run [`ssh`](../software/ssh.md):
    
    ```bash
    $ ssh <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    - "< >" prompts you to set the keyword specific for you or your needs. In the example above, this is basically your username.

    ![Terminal](./img/putty.jpg)

    - The ssh (secure shell) client [**putty**](https://www.putty.org/)

        - You can save hosts for later.
        - No graphics.
    
    - Windows Powershell terminal can also work

        - Cannot save hosts
        - no graphics
        - [PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/)
    
    - Windows command prompt can also work

        - Cannot save hosts
        - no graphics
        - [Command Prompt](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/a-beginners-guide-to-the-windows-command-line/)

    - [Git bash](https://gitforwindows.org/)



!!! info "Working on Rackham"    
    - Now we present alternatives to work on Rackham


## Alternative ways to log in and work

!!! info "Login procedure"
    **Which login procedure is best for You, depends on:**
    
    - Your background
    - Your OS environment,
    - Your planned interaction with your local computer
    - Your planned use of graphics on the cluster

    **If you plan to:**
    
    - do **day-to-day** work where *terminal shell is sufficient*

        - Mac: *Terminal, iTerm2*
        - Linux: *Terminal*
        - Windows: *Putty*, *Windows Powershell* or even *command prompt (CMD)*
     
    - **interact with you local computer**
    
        - Mac/Linux: you can always work in a local shell (mutiple terminal windows open)
       
            - (S)FTP browser: *Filezilla*, *Cyberduck*
          
        - Windows
       
            - (S)FTP browser: *WinSCP*
            - *MobaXterm* has built-in SFTP browser
            - you may benefit from having a *Windows Subsystem for Linux, WSL(2)*       
        
    - **do day-to-day work** with **some graphical applications ([X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md))**
    
        - Mac: *Terminal, iTerm2 + XQuartz*
        - Linux: *Terminal*
        - Windows: *MobaXterm*
     
     
    - integrate you cluster work with **code development**
    
        - All OS: Example [Visual Studio Code](../cluster_guides/vscodium_on_rackham.md)
     
     
    - use **sophistic graphical interfaces** like *RStudio and MATLAB* etcetera
    
        - *ThinLinc application*
     
     
     
## Terminals (see above)

## Terminal with X11 server and light graphics

=== "Mac"

    - Download XQuartz or other X11 server for Mac OS from [https://www.xquartz.org/](https://www.xquartz.org/)

    ???- question "How do I know XQuartz has been installed?"

        As far as we know: you cannot check this directly:
        you will have to find out by running an application of
        Rackham that uses this. See below :-)

    - Start terminal (e.g. from Launchpad) or [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
      to run [`ssh`](../software/ssh.md):

    ``` bash
    $ ssh -X [username]@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    where `[username]` is your UPPMAX username and `-X` enables [X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md).
    For example, if your UPPMAX username is `sven`, this wold be 
    `ssh -X sven@rackham.uppmax.uu.se`

    ???- question "How do I know XQuartz has been installed?"

        See [SSH X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwading.md).

        Spoiler: use `xeyes`

=== "Windows"

    - Download and install ONE of the X-servers below (to enable graphics)
        - [GWSL](https://opticos.github.io/gwsl) (recommended because of hardware integration)
        - [X-ming](https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/)
        - [VCXSRV](https://sourceforge.net/projects/vcxsrv/) 


    - or... 
    
    - Install a ssh (secure shell) program with built-in X11 and sftp file manager
        - [**MobaXterm**](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/)
        - sftp frame makes it easy to move, upload and download files.
        - ... though downloading from remote host to local is usually easier.
        - tabs for several sessions

    <!-- ![Caption](./img/mobax.jpg ) -->

    - Start local terminal and [an SSH session](../software/ssh.md) by:

    ``` bash
    $ ssh -X <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    - ``-X`` Enables [X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md). 

    ![Caption](./img/mobax_start1.jpg)

    - Or even better, create and save a SSH session, as shown in image below.
        - This allows you to use MobaXterm as a file manager and  to use the built-in graphical texteditor.
        - You can rename the session in the Bookmark settings tab.

    ![Caption](./img/mobax_start.jpg)



!!! note "X-forwarding from the command line (generally)"

    [X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md) allows 
    graphics to be sent through the [SSH client](../software/ssh_client.md) 
    connection you’re using to connect

    - Use `ssh -X`

    - The X servers that enables graphics are needed, as mentioned above!
      - When starting a graphical program, a new window will open, but your terminal will be “locked”.
      - Run using "`&`" at the end to run it as a background process e.g. "`xeyes &`" or “`gedit &`”

    <!-- ![Caption](./img/xeyes.png) -->

    - Alternatively, use `<ctrl>-z` to put e.g. gedit to sleep and type "`bg`" to make last process in background.



???+ question "Test log in to **Rackham**, using your terminal"
    
    - First try:

    ``` bash
    $ ssh -X <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```

    - If you receive errors or warnings, instead try:

    ``` bash
    $ ssh <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```

    - If you do have X11 installed:
    ``` bash
    $ xeyes &
    ```

## Remote desktop

![Rackham's remote desktop environment](./img/rackham_via_remote_desktop_50.jpg)

You can also login to Rackham's remote desktop environment.
This gives you a desktop environment, as if you were working on your own computer!

You can do so:

- [via the web](#remote-desktop-via-the-web)
- [via a ThinLinc client](#remote-desktop-via-a-ThinLinc client)

### Remote desktop via the web

Go to [https://rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se](https://rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se).
   
## Remote desktop via a ThinLinc client

Use the ThinLinc client from [https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/download](https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/download)

## Linux on your computer

!!! abstract "Local Linux environment"
    - You may sometimes benefit from having a local Linux environment.
    - Examples:
        - Mimic cluster environment to work with your local files and data as on the Cluster
        - get used to Linux (!)
    - Mac is UNIX and very Linux-like
    - Windows requires WSL (Windows subsystem for Linux)


??? question "For windows users who wants to get started with WSL (not covered here)"
    - Install WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) 
        - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10 (Links to an external site.)
        - Don’t forget to update to wsl2
    - Install a distribution or a ssh (secure shell) program
        - Distribution such as ubuntu or
        - (recommended) a ssh program such as MobaXTerm
        - https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/ (Links to an external site.)
            - sftp frame makes it easy to move, upload and download files.
    - You may want to check this webpage as well!
        - https://hackmd.io/@pmitev/Linux4WinUsers (Links to an external site.)

 
## Visual Studio Code (not covered here)

???- question "How to use Visual Studio Code/Codium on Rackham in detail?" 

    See a detailed guide how to use Visual Studio Code/Codium on Rackham [here](../cluster_guides/vscodium_on_rackham.md)

- Integrate you cluster work with *code development*
- [SSH-remote from VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview)
- [Remote development using Visual Studio Code on Alvis cluster](https://www.c3se.chalmers.se/documentation/remote-vscode/) 
    - Similar to Rackham. Just change login details!

 

!!! abstract "keypoints"
    - When you log in from your local computer you will always arrive at a login node with limited resources. 
         - You reach the calculations nodes from within the login node (See  Submitting jobs section)
    - You reach UPPMAX clusters either using a terminal client or Thinlinc
    - Graphics are included in Thinlinc and from terminal if you have enabled X11.
    - Which client to use?
    - Graphics and easy to use
        - ThinLinc
    - Best integrated systems
        - Visual Studio Code has several extensions (remote, SCP, programming IDE:s)
        - Windows: MobaXterm is somewhat easier to use.

Commit message:

login_rackham.md rackham-gui for TL

docs/getting_started/login_rackham.md, after:

# Log in to Rackham

!!! info "[Go to the Rackham portal](../cluster_guides/rackham_portal.md)"

    At [the Rackham portal](../cluster_guides/rackham_portal.md) one can 
    learn about using Rackham, for example:

    - How to do data transfer
    - How to make Rackham do a calculation
    - How to develop code on Rackham

!!! info "Objectives"
    - We'll go through platform specific (Mac/Linux/Windows) ways to log in to UPPMAX
    - See different clients
    - Enable graphics

!!! warning
    - If you lack a user account, visit the [Getting started page](https://www.uppmax.uu.se/support/getting-started/course-projects/)

## General understanding

- When logging in to UPPMAX from your local computer you will arrive to your home folder at the login node of an UPPMAX cluster.
- This means that only light analysis and and calculations should be made here.
- You will see this in the prompt after "@" as the clustername and a low number. For instance:

   ``` bash 
     [<user>@rackham3 ~]$
   ```
    
- You will later learn how to reach the calculation nodes. Then the prompt states the node number with a single letter, like "r" for Rackham. For instance:

   ``` bash
      [<user>@r484 ~]
   ```

!!! info "Quick start log in!"
    - Below you find how to log in
    - Further down we present other procedures to reach Rackham, depending on your planned work.
    

## Log in with a terminal, omitting support for graphics  

=== "Mac"

    - Start terminal (e.g. from Launchpad) or [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
      to run [`ssh`](../software/ssh.md)
    
    ``` bash 
    $ ssh <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    - "< >" prompts you to set the keyword specific for you or your needs. In the example above, this is basically your username.

    <!-- ![Terminal](./img/Mac_terminal.png) -->

    - iTerm2 goodies:
    
       - You can save hosts for later.
       - Drag and drop scp
       
=== "Windows"

    - Start a terminal (see below) to run [`ssh`](../software/ssh.md):
    
    ```bash
    $ ssh <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    - "< >" prompts you to set the keyword specific for you or your needs. In the example above, this is basically your username.

    ![Terminal](./img/putty.jpg)

    - The ssh (secure shell) client [**putty**](https://www.putty.org/)

        - You can save hosts for later.
        - No graphics.
    
    - Windows Powershell terminal can also work

        - Cannot save hosts
        - no graphics
        - [PowerShell](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/)
    
    - Windows command prompt can also work

        - Cannot save hosts
        - no graphics
        - [Command Prompt](https://www.makeuseof.com/tag/a-beginners-guide-to-the-windows-command-line/)

    - [Git bash](https://gitforwindows.org/)



!!! info "Working on Rackham"    
    - Now we present alternatives to work on Rackham


## Alternative ways to log in and work

!!! info "Login procedure"
    **Which login procedure is best for You, depends on:**
    
    - Your background
    - Your OS environment,
    - Your planned interaction with your local computer
    - Your planned use of graphics on the cluster

    **If you plan to:**
    
    - do **day-to-day** work where *terminal shell is sufficient*

        - Mac: *Terminal, iTerm2*
        - Linux: *Terminal*
        - Windows: *Putty*, *Windows Powershell* or even *command prompt (CMD)*
     
    - **interact with you local computer**
    
        - Mac/Linux: you can always work in a local shell (mutiple terminal windows open)
       
            - (S)FTP browser: *Filezilla*, *Cyberduck*
          
        - Windows
       
            - (S)FTP browser: *WinSCP*
            - *MobaXterm* has built-in SFTP browser
            - you may benefit from having a *Windows Subsystem for Linux, WSL(2)*       
        
    - **do day-to-day work** with **some graphical applications ([X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md))**
    
        - Mac: *Terminal, iTerm2 + XQuartz*
        - Linux: *Terminal*
        - Windows: *MobaXterm*
     
     
    - integrate you cluster work with **code development**
    
        - All OS: Example [Visual Studio Code](../cluster_guides/vscodium_on_rackham.md)
     
     
    - use **sophistic graphical interfaces** like *RStudio and MATLAB* etcetera
    
        - *ThinLinc application*
     
     
     
## Terminals (see above)

## Terminal with X11 server and light graphics

=== "Mac"

    - Download XQuartz or other X11 server for Mac OS from [https://www.xquartz.org/](https://www.xquartz.org/)

    ???- question "How do I know XQuartz has been installed?"

        As far as we know: you cannot check this directly:
        you will have to find out by running an application of
        Rackham that uses this. See below :-)

    - Start terminal (e.g. from Launchpad) or [iTerm2](https://iterm2.com/)
      to run [`ssh`](../software/ssh.md):

    ``` bash
    $ ssh -X [username]@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    where `[username]` is your UPPMAX username and `-X` enables [X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md).
    For example, if your UPPMAX username is `sven`, this wold be 
    `ssh -X sven@rackham.uppmax.uu.se`

    ???- question "How do I know XQuartz has been installed?"

        See [SSH X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwading.md).

        Spoiler: use `xeyes`

=== "Windows"

    - Download and install ONE of the X-servers below (to enable graphics)
        - [GWSL](https://opticos.github.io/gwsl) (recommended because of hardware integration)
        - [X-ming](https://sourceforge.net/projects/xming/)
        - [VCXSRV](https://sourceforge.net/projects/vcxsrv/) 


    - or... 
    
    - Install a ssh (secure shell) program with built-in X11 and sftp file manager
        - [**MobaXterm**](https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/)
        - sftp frame makes it easy to move, upload and download files.
        - ... though downloading from remote host to local is usually easier.
        - tabs for several sessions

    <!-- ![Caption](./img/mobax.jpg ) -->

    - Start local terminal and [an SSH session](../software/ssh.md) by:

    ``` bash
    $ ssh -X <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```
    
    - ``-X`` Enables [X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md). 

    ![Caption](./img/mobax_start1.jpg)

    - Or even better, create and save a SSH session, as shown in image below.
        - This allows you to use MobaXterm as a file manager and  to use the built-in graphical texteditor.
        - You can rename the session in the Bookmark settings tab.

    ![Caption](./img/mobax_start.jpg)



!!! note "X-forwarding from the command line (generally)"

    [X forwarding](../software/ssh_x_forwarding.md) allows 
    graphics to be sent through the [SSH client](../software/ssh_client.md) 
    connection you’re using to connect

    - Use `ssh -X`

    - The X servers that enables graphics are needed, as mentioned above!
      - When starting a graphical program, a new window will open, but your terminal will be “locked”.
      - Run using "`&`" at the end to run it as a background process e.g. "`xeyes &`" or “`gedit &`”

    <!-- ![Caption](./img/xeyes.png) -->

    - Alternatively, use `<ctrl>-z` to put e.g. gedit to sleep and type "`bg`" to make last process in background.



???+ question "Test log in to **Rackham**, using your terminal"
    
    - First try:

    ``` bash
    $ ssh -X <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```

    - If you receive errors or warnings, instead try:

    ``` bash
    $ ssh <username>@rackham.uppmax.uu.se
    ```

    - If you do have X11 installed:
    ``` bash
    $ xeyes &
    ```

## Remote desktop

![Rackham's remote desktop environment](./img/rackham_via_remote_desktop_50.jpg)

You can also login to Rackham's remote desktop environment.
This gives you a desktop environment, as if you were working on your own computer!

You can do so:

- [via the web](#remote-desktop-via-the-web)
- [via a ThinLinc client](#remote-desktop-via-a-ThinLinc client)

### Remote desktop via the web

Go to [https://rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se](https://rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se).
   
## Remote desktop via a ThinLinc client

Use the ThinLinc client from [https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/download](https://www.cendio.com/thinlinc/download)

- Set the server name to ``rackham-gui.uppmax.uu.se``.

## Linux on your computer

!!! abstract "Local Linux environment"
    - You may sometimes benefit from having a local Linux environment.
    - Examples:
        - Mimic cluster environment to work with your local files and data as on the Cluster
        - get used to Linux (!)
    - Mac is UNIX and very Linux-like
    - Windows requires WSL (Windows subsystem for Linux)


??? question "For windows users who wants to get started with WSL (not covered here)"
    - Install WSL (Windows Subsystem for Linux) 
        - https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10 (Links to an external site.)
        - Don’t forget to update to wsl2
    - Install a distribution or a ssh (secure shell) program
        - Distribution such as ubuntu or
        - (recommended) a ssh program such as MobaXTerm
        - https://mobaxterm.mobatek.net/ (Links to an external site.)
            - sftp frame makes it easy to move, upload and download files.
    - You may want to check this webpage as well!
        - https://hackmd.io/@pmitev/Linux4WinUsers (Links to an external site.)

 
## Visual Studio Code (not covered here)

???- question "How to use Visual Studio Code/Codium on Rackham in detail?" 

    See a detailed guide how to use Visual Studio Code/Codium on Rackham [here](../cluster_guides/vscodium_on_rackham.md)

- Integrate you cluster work with *code development*
- [SSH-remote from VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/remote/remote-overview)
- [Remote development using Visual Studio Code on Alvis cluster](https://www.c3se.chalmers.se/documentation/remote-vscode/) 
    - Similar to Rackham. Just change login details!

 

!!! abstract "keypoints"
    - When you log in from your local computer you will always arrive at a login node with limited resources. 
         - You reach the calculations nodes from within the login node (See  Submitting jobs section)
    - You reach UPPMAX clusters either using a terminal client or Thinlinc
    - Graphics are included in Thinlinc and from terminal if you have enabled X11.
    - Which client to use?
    - Graphics and easy to use
        - ThinLinc
    - Best integrated systems
        - Visual Studio Code has several extensions (remote, SCP, programming IDE:s)
        - Windows: MobaXterm is somewhat easier to use.
