docs/getting_started/login_bianca.md, before:

---
tags:
  - login
  - log in
  - Bianca
---

# Log in to Bianca

![The Bianca environments](./img/bianca_environments_926_x_261.png)

> The two Bianca environments to work on Bianca.
> At the left is a remote desktop environment.
> At the the right is the console environment.

There are multiple UPPMAX clusters one can [log in to](../getting_started/login.md).
Here it is described how to log in to [Bianca](../cluster_guides/bianca.md):

## Which way to log in to Bianca

After you've fulfilled all [prerequisites for using Bianca](bianca_usage_prerequisites.md),
there are many ways to log in to Bianca.

Here is the decision tree, with more detailed explanation below it:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  in_sunet(A.Can you get inside the university networks?)
  need_remote_desktop(B.Need/prefer a remote desktop?)
  how_login(C.How to log in?)
  need_remote_desktop_no_sunet(B.Need/prefer a remote desktop?)
  how_login_no_sunet(C.How to log in?)

  use_website[1.Use the Bianca remote desktop website]
  use_password[2.Use a terminal and password to access Bianca directly]
  use_ssh_keys[3.Use a terminal and SSH keys to access Bianca directly]
  
  use_website_no_sunet[4.Use the Rackham remote desktop website]
  use_password_no_sunet[5.Use a terminal and password via Rackham]
  use_ssh_keys_no_sunet[Use a terminal and SSH keys via Rackham]

  in_sunet --> |yes| need_remote_desktop

  need_remote_desktop --> |no| how_login
  need_remote_desktop --> |yes| use_website

  how_login --> |Using a password| use_password
  how_login --> |Using SSH keys| use_ssh_keys

  in_sunet --> |no| need_remote_desktop_no_sunet

  need_remote_desktop_no_sunet --> |no| how_login_no_sunet
  need_remote_desktop_no_sunet --> |yes| use_website_no_sunet

  how_login_no_sunet --> |Using a password| use_password_no_sunet
  how_login_no_sunet --> |Using SSH keys| use_ssh_keys_no_sunet
```

> Decision tree on how to log in to Bianca

Question A, 'Can you get inside the university networks?' is commonly answered
'yes' for anyone with an email address at a university in Sweden.
The [UPPMAX documentation on how to get inside the university networks](get_inside_sunet.md)
should allow anyone to do so.

Question B, 'Need/prefer a remote desktop?' is about if you prefer a
visual/graphical environment to work with Bianca, which will be similar to
what most of us are used to. A 'yes' is more suitable for new users,
although it is considered a more clunky (it responds slower on user input)
and clumsy (copy-pasting to it needs multiple mouse clicks) way to work.
A 'no' is more suitable for users comfortable with a terminal and works
smoothly.

???- question "How does the Bianca remote desktop look like?"

    One can pick multiple remote desktop environments,
    such as GNOME and XFCE (and KDE, don't pick KDE!).

    ![The Bianca remote desktop](./img/bianca_remote_desktop.png)

    > The Bianca XFCE remote desktop environment

    ![A more populated Bianca remote desktop](../software/img/thinlinc_local_bianca.jpg)

    > A more populated Bianca XFCE remote desktop

- A remote desktop environment, also called 'graphical environment',
  'GUI environment', '[ThinLinc](../software/thinlinc.md) environment'

???- question "How does the Bianca console environment look like?"

    ![The Bianca console environment](./img/login_bianca_via_terminal_terminal.png)

    > The Bianca console environment

- A console environment, also called 'terminal environment' or '[terminal](../software/terminal.md)'

Question C, 'How to log in?' is about how you prefer to login.
The option 'Using a password' is more suitable for new users,
as it is easy to setup and understand. However, one does need to type
his/her password every time one logs in. 'Using SSH keys' is harder
to setup, yet more convenient.

???- question "Will a local ThinLinc client work too?"

    No.

    One really can only access the Bianca remote desktop environment
    via the website.

Here are the ways to log in to Bianca:

- [1.Use the Bianca remote desktop website](login_bianca_remote_desktop_website.md)
- [2.Use a terminal and password to access Bianca directly](login_bianca_console_password.md)
- [3.Use a terminal and SSH keys to access Bianca directly](login_bianca_console_ssh_key.md)
- [4.Use the Rackham remote desktop website](login_bianca_remote_desktop_website_no_sunet.md)
  to log in to Bianca's remote desktop environment
- [5.Use a terminal and password via Rackham](login_bianca_console_password_no_sunet.md)
  to log in to Bianca's console environment
- [6.Use a terminal and SSH keys via Rackham](login_bianca_console_ssh_key_no_sunet.md)
  to log in to Bianca's console environment

After login, you will be on a [login node](../cluster_guides/login_node.md).

!!! note "How to behave on a login node"

    On a login node, one can and should do simple things only:
    it is a resource shared with all other users on that node.

    If you need to do more intense calculations,
    [use the Slurm job scheduler](../cluster_guides/slurm_on_rackham.md).

    If you need to do more intense calculations interactively,
    [use an interactive node](../cluster_guides/start_interactive_node_on_rackham.md).

Commit message:

Be more explicit what is not recommended

docs/getting_started/login_bianca.md, after:

---
tags:
  - login
  - log in
  - Bianca
---

# Log in to Bianca

![The Bianca environments](./img/bianca_environments_926_x_261.png)

> The two Bianca environments to work on Bianca.
> At the left is a remote desktop environment.
> At the the right is the console environment.

There are multiple UPPMAX clusters one can [log in to](../getting_started/login.md).
Here it is described how to log in to [Bianca](../cluster_guides/bianca.md):

## Which way to log in to Bianca

After you've fulfilled all [prerequisites for using Bianca](bianca_usage_prerequisites.md),
there are many ways to log in to Bianca.

Here is the decision tree, with more detailed explanation below it:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
  in_sunet(A.Can you get inside the university networks?)
  need_remote_desktop(B.Need/prefer a remote desktop?)
  how_login(C.How to log in?)
  need_remote_desktop_no_sunet(B.Need/prefer a remote desktop?)
  how_login_no_sunet(C.How to log in?)

  use_website[1.Use the Bianca remote desktop website]
  use_password[2.Use a terminal and password to access Bianca directly]
  use_ssh_keys[3.Use a terminal and SSH keys to access Bianca directly]
  
  use_website_no_sunet[4.Use the Rackham remote desktop website]
  use_password_no_sunet[5.Use a terminal and password via Rackham]
  use_ssh_keys_no_sunet[Use a terminal and SSH keys via Rackham]

  in_sunet --> |yes| need_remote_desktop

  need_remote_desktop --> |no| how_login
  need_remote_desktop --> |yes| use_website

  how_login --> |Using a password| use_password
  how_login --> |Using SSH keys| use_ssh_keys

  in_sunet --> |no| need_remote_desktop_no_sunet

  need_remote_desktop_no_sunet --> |no| how_login_no_sunet
  need_remote_desktop_no_sunet --> |yes| use_website_no_sunet

  how_login_no_sunet --> |Using a password| use_password_no_sunet
  how_login_no_sunet --> |Using SSH keys| use_ssh_keys_no_sunet
```

> Decision tree on how to log in to Bianca

Question A, 'Can you get inside the university networks?' is commonly answered
'yes' for anyone with an email address at a university in Sweden.
The [UPPMAX documentation on how to get inside the university networks](get_inside_sunet.md)
should allow anyone to do so.

Question B, 'Need/prefer a remote desktop?' is about if you prefer a
visual/graphical environment to work with Bianca, which will be similar to
what most of us are used to. A 'yes' is more suitable for new users,
although it is considered a more clunky (it responds slower on user input)
and clumsy (copy-pasting to it needs multiple mouse clicks) way to work.
A 'no' is more suitable for users comfortable with a terminal and works
smoothly.

???- question "How does the Bianca remote desktop look like?"

    One can pick multiple remote desktop environments,
    such as GNOME and XFCE (and KDE, don't pick KDE!).

    ![The Bianca remote desktop](./img/bianca_remote_desktop.png)

    > The Bianca XFCE remote desktop environment

    ![A more populated Bianca remote desktop](../software/img/thinlinc_local_bianca.jpg)

    > A more populated Bianca XFCE remote desktop

- A remote desktop environment, also called 'graphical environment',
  'GUI environment', '[ThinLinc](../software/thinlinc.md) environment'

???- question "How does the Bianca console environment look like?"

    ![The Bianca console environment](./img/login_bianca_via_terminal_terminal.png)

    > The Bianca console environment

- A console environment, also called 'terminal environment' or '[terminal](../software/terminal.md)'

Question C, 'How to log in?' is about how you prefer to login.
The option 'Using a password' is more suitable for new users,
as it is easy to setup and understand. However, one does need to type
his/her password every time one logs in. 'Using SSH keys' is harder
to setup, yet more convenient.

???- question "Will a local ThinLinc client work too?"

    No.

    One really can only access the Bianca remote desktop environment
    via the website.

Here are the ways to log in to Bianca:

- [1.Use the Bianca remote desktop website](login_bianca_remote_desktop_website.md)
- [2.Use a terminal and password to access Bianca directly](login_bianca_console_password.md)
- [3.Use a terminal and SSH keys to access Bianca directly](login_bianca_console_ssh_key.md)
- (not recommended) [4.Use the Rackham remote desktop website](login_bianca_remote_desktop_website_no_sunet.md)
  to log in to Bianca's remote desktop environment 
- (not recommended) [5.Use a terminal and password via Rackham](login_bianca_console_password_no_sunet.md)
  to log in to Bianca's console environment
- (not recommended) [6.Use a terminal and SSH keys via Rackham](login_bianca_console_ssh_key_no_sunet.md)
  to log in to Bianca's console environment

After login, you will be on a [login node](../cluster_guides/login_node.md).

!!! note "How to behave on a login node"

    On a login node, one can and should do simple things only:
    it is a resource shared with all other users on that node.

    If you need to do more intense calculations,
    [use the Slurm job scheduler](../cluster_guides/slurm_on_rackham.md).

    If you need to do more intense calculations interactively,
    [use an interactive node](../cluster_guides/start_interactive_node_on_rackham.md).
