docs/getting_started/project_apply.md, before:

---
tags:
  - project
  - apply
  - application
---

# Project application

To use [UPPMAX](../cluster_guides/uppmax.md) resources, one needs:

- [an active research project](project.md)
- [an UPPMAX user account](user_account.md)

Your user account is a personal log-in to our systems. Computer resources like CPU-hours and disk storage are allocated to projects.

The workflow is like this:

- Register in SUPR
- Accept SUPR user agreement
- Become a member of a project
- Apply for a user account at UPPMAX (or other resources)

!!! warning

    Note that you can only get a user account on a resource if you belong to a project with allocations there!

!!! tip

    [UPPMAX rules](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/information-about-projects/uppmax-rules)

## SUPR account

- [Register in SUPR](supr_register.md)
- [Accept the user agreement in SUPR](supr_register.md#accept-the-user-agreement)

## Applying for an UPPMAX project as a PI

If you are a PI: apply for a project in SUPR.

- [Apply for a Bianca project](project_apply_bianca.md), i.e. a project
  using sensitive data
- [Apply for a Pelle project](project_apply_pelle.md), i.e. a project
  for the new Uppsala-local general-purpose cluster
- [Apply for a Swedish Science Cloud project](project_apply_scc.md),
  i.e. a project that provides an online service, e.g. a website
- [Apply for a SIMPLER project](project_apply_simpler.md),
  i.e. a project for the Swedish Infrastructure for Medical Population-based Life-course and Environmental Research

## Applying for an UPPMAX project as a student

As a student, you can either

- [Become a member of a project](#become-a-member-of-a-project)
- [Request an undergraduate course project](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/course)

## Become a member of a project

To become a member of a project:

- Ask the PI of the project to add you in [SUPR](supr.md) by e.g. email
- [Join an existing project](join_existing_project.md).

???- question "I just got an UPPMAX project, yet I cannot login to UPPMAX?"

    It tends to be a matter of minutes to less than hours
    before the changes propagate from SUPR to UPPMAX.

    If after one night you cannot login,
    please [contact support](../support.md).

Commit message:

Add decisions for PI for which project to apply

docs/getting_started/project_apply.md, after:

---
tags:
  - project
  - apply
  - application
---

# Project application

To use [UPPMAX](../cluster_guides/uppmax.md) resources, one needs:

- [an active research project](project.md)
- [an UPPMAX user account](user_account.md)

Your user account is a personal log-in to our systems. Computer resources like CPU-hours and disk storage are allocated to projects.

The workflow is like this:

- Register in SUPR
- Accept SUPR user agreement
- Become a member of a project
- Apply for a user account at UPPMAX (or other resources)

!!! warning

    Note that you can only get a user account on a resource if you belong to a project with allocations there!

!!! tip

    [UPPMAX rules](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/information-about-projects/uppmax-rules)

## SUPR account

- [Register in SUPR](supr_register.md)
- [Accept the user agreement in SUPR](supr_register.md#accept-the-user-agreement)

## Applying for an UPPMAX project as a PI

If you are a PI: apply for a project in SUPR.

When applying for a project, you will need to specify
[an UPPMAX HPC cluster](../cluster_guides/uppmax_cluster.md).
The decision tree on which HPC cluster to pick is as follows:

- Do you want to run calcuations on data that needs privacy protection?
  Then [apply for a Bianca project](project_apply_bianca.md)
- Do you want to run calcuations on data that does not need privacy protection?
  [Apply for a Pelle project](project_apply_pelle.md)
- Do you want to provides an online service, e.g. a website?
  [Apply for a Swedish Science Cloud project](project_apply_scc.md)
- Do you want to join the SIMPLER project,
  i.e. a project for the Swedish Infrastructure for Medical Population-based
  Life-course and Environmental Research?
  [Apply for a SIMPLER project](project_apply_simpler.md),

## Applying for an UPPMAX project as a student

As a student, you can either

- [Become a member of a project](#become-a-member-of-a-project)
- [Request an undergraduate course project](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/course)

## Become a member of a project

To become a member of a project:

- Ask the PI of the project to add you in [SUPR](supr.md) by e.g. email
- [Join an existing project](join_existing_project.md).

???- question "I just got an UPPMAX project, yet I cannot login to UPPMAX?"

    It tends to be a matter of minutes to less than hours
    before the changes propagate from SUPR to UPPMAX.

    If after one night you cannot login,
    please [contact support](../support.md).
