docs/getting_started/project_apply_simpler.md, before:

---
tags:
  - project
  - apply
  - application
  - SIMPLER
---

# SIMPLER project application

!!! info "SIMPLER is an abbreviation"

    SIMPLER is an abbreviation of
    'Swedish Infrastructure for Medical Population-based Life-course
    and Environmental Research'.
    It does not meant to indicate that this is easier.

To use an UPPMAX cluster, one [needs to apply to a project](project_apply.md).
This page describes how to apply for a SIMPLER project.

## Read this first

The SIMPLER infrastructure offers resources on the SNIC NAISS platform, Bianca, for users who have been granted access to SIMPLER data. This page contains instructions to approved SIMPLER users for gaining access to their data on the analysis platform.

Some background: This page is only for SIMPLER users (for more information see [SIMPLER4Health](http://www.simpler4health.se/)). To gain access to your SIMPLER data, simply follow the instructions on this page.

These instructions will help you:

- Create an account on SUPR, the user and project management portal for the Swedish National Infrastructure for Computing.
- Create a project for your SIMPLER data.
- Create a user account for the Bianca system, where your data will be accessible.
- Log in to your project on Bianca.

[Old page: Applying for a SIMPLER project](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/simpler)

## Procedure

???- question "Prefer a video?"

    View [the YouTube video that shows this procedure](https://youtu.be/4mNs7XFuO0o)

### 1. Go to [https://supr.naiss.se/](https://supr.naiss.se/)

![Example SUPR NAISS main page](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> Example SUPR NAISS main page

### 2. Click on 'Rounds'

On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

![On the main page, click on 'Rounds'](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

### 3. Click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

![In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'](./img/supr_naiss_rounds_click_go_to_naiss_sens.png)

> In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

### 4. Click on 'Go to SIMPLER' for the current year

In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to SIMPLER' for the current year.

![In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to SIMPLER'](./img/supr_naiss_rounds_click_go_to_simpler.png)

> In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to SIMPLER' for the current year.

### 5. Click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year

In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year

![In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year](./img/supr_naiss_open_for_proposals_click_create_new_simpler.png)

> In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year

### 6. Add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

In the 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

![In the 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'](./img/supr_naiss_create_new_proposal_for_simpler.png)

> In the 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

After this, the procedure is straightforward.

Commit message:

project_apply_simpler.md add last parts from SV

docs/getting_started/project_apply_simpler.md, after:

---
tags:
  - project
  - apply
  - application
  - SIMPLER
---

# SIMPLER project application

!!! info "SIMPLER is an abbreviation"

    SIMPLER is an abbreviation of
    'Swedish Infrastructure for Medical Population-based Life-course
    and Environmental Research'.
    It does not meant to indicate that this is easier.

To use an UPPMAX cluster, one [needs to apply to a project](project_apply.md).
This page describes how to apply for a SIMPLER project.

## Read this first

The SIMPLER infrastructure offers resources on the SNIC NAISS platform, Bianca, for users who have been granted access to SIMPLER data. This page contains instructions to approved SIMPLER users for gaining access to their data on the analysis platform.

Some background: This page is only for SIMPLER users (for more information see [SIMPLER4Health](http://www.simpler4health.se/)). To gain access to your SIMPLER data, simply follow the instructions on this page.

These instructions will help you:

- Create an account on SUPR, the user and project management portal for the Swedish National Infrastructure for Computing.
- Create a project for your SIMPLER data.
- Create a user account for the Bianca system, where your data will be accessible.
- Log in to your project on Bianca.

[Old page: Applying for a SIMPLER project](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/simpler)

## Procedure

???- question "Prefer a video?"

    View [the YouTube video that shows this procedure](https://youtu.be/4mNs7XFuO0o)

### 1. Go to [https://supr.naiss.se/](https://supr.naiss.se/)

![Example SUPR NAISS main page](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> Example SUPR NAISS main page

### 2. Click on 'Rounds'

On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

![On the main page, click on 'Rounds'](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

### 3. Click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

![In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'](./img/supr_naiss_rounds_click_go_to_naiss_sens.png)

> In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

### 4. Click on 'Go to SIMPLER' for the current year

In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to SIMPLER' for the current year.

![In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to SIMPLER'](./img/supr_naiss_rounds_click_go_to_simpler.png)

> In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to SIMPLER' for the current year.

### 5. Click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year

In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year

![In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year](./img/supr_naiss_open_for_proposals_click_create_new_simpler.png)

> In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER' for the current year

### 6. Add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

In the 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

![In the 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'](./img/supr_naiss_create_new_proposal_for_simpler.png)

> In the 'Create New Proposal for SIMPLER 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

## 7. Create an UPPMAX user account 
Once you have a SUPR-account and an approved project, then you can apply for an Uppmax account. This is described in [Applying for a user account](./user_account.md).

In order to log in to Bianca, you will need to activate two factor authentication according to the instructions found here.

Before you try logging in to Bianca, we recommend that you change temporary password you received by email. This is done on the server Rackham. You reach Rackham e.g. via the software Mobaxterm which you must download and install. Instructions are here.

The [Bianca User Guide](../cluster_guides/bianca_portal.md) has more information about how the system is used.

The data you have requested for SIMPLER will be placed by SIMPLER staff in the special directory "dataset-simpler" which is located in, and unique to, your project.

## Where to turn for support

Problems with the Bianca system should be sent to UPPMAX via the [SUPR support form](https://supr.naiss.se/support), and issues with the data itself should be sent to ``simpler@surgsci.uu.se``.
