docs/getting_started/project_apply_bianca.md, before:

---
tags:
  - project
  - apply
  - application
  - Bianca
---

# Project application for Bianca

To use an UPPMAX cluster, one [needs to apply to a project](project_apply.md).

This page describes how to apply to a Bianca/Sens project.

## Pre-preparations, read this first

- [Applying for NAISS SENS project](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/Applying-for-NAISS-SENS-project)

## Procedure for project application

### 1. Go to [https://supr.naiss.se/](https://supr.naiss.se/)

![Example SUPR NAISS main page](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> Example SUPR NAISS main page

### 2. Click on 'Rounds'

On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

![On the main page, click on 'Rounds'](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

### 3. Click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

![In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'](./img/supr_naiss_rounds_click_go_to_naiss_sens.png)

> In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

### 4. Click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

In the 'NAISS SENS Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the
current year:

![In the 'NAISS SENS Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the current year](./img/supr_naiss_naiss_sens_rounds_click_go_to_small.png)

> In the 'NAISS SENS Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

### 5. Click 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

![In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small' for the current year](./img/supr_naiss_open_for_proposals_click_create_new_sens.png)

> In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

### 6. Add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

In the 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

![In the 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'](./img/supr_naiss_create_new_proposal_for_naiss_sens_small.png)

> In the 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

After this, the procedure is straightforward.

![Resource available for a NAISS SENS Small project](./img/supr_naiss_create_new_proposal_for_naiss_sens_small_resources.png)

> Resource available for a NAISS SENS Small project

Commit message:

project_apply_bianca.md insert all new images

docs/getting_started/project_apply_bianca.md, after:

---
tags:
  - project
  - apply
  - application
  - Bianca
---

# Project application for Bianca

To use an UPPMAX cluster, one [needs to apply to a project](project_apply.md).

This page describes how to apply to a Bianca/Sens project.

## Pre-preparations, read this first

- [Applying for NAISS SENS project](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax/get-started/apply-for-project-and-create-user-account/Applying-for-NAISS-SENS-project)

## Procedure for project application

### 1. Go to [https://supr.naiss.se/](https://supr.naiss.se/)

![Example SUPR NAISS main page](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> Example SUPR NAISS main page

### 2. Click on 'Rounds'

On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

![On the main page, click on 'Rounds'](./img/supr_naiss_start_click_rounds.png)

> On the main page, click on 'Rounds'

### 3. Click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

![In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'](./img/supr_naiss_rounds_click_go_to_naiss_sens.png)

> In the 'Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS'

### 4. Click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

In the 'NAISS SENS Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the
current year:

![In the 'NAISS SENS Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the current year](./img/rounds_2026.png)

> In the 'NAISS SENS Rounds' menu, click on 'Go to NAISS SENS Small' for the current year

### 5. Click 'Go to NAISS Small/Medium' for the current year

In the 'NAISS Rounds' screen, click 'Go to NAISS Small' or 'Go to NAISS Medium" for the current year, depending on the Size of the project.

- Small: Up to 5,000 core-h/month, and 10 TiB (backup) and 14 TiB (non-backup)
    - Check details and who is eligible to apply at the [NAISS allocation page for small projects](https://www.naiss.se/allocations/small/)
- Medium: Up to 100,000 core-h/month, and 100 TiB (backup) and 50 TiB (non-backup)
    - Check details and who is eligible to apply at the [NAISS allocation page for medium projects](https://www.naiss.se/allocations/mediuml/)

![In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, click 'Create New Proposal for NAISS Small' for the current year](./img/rounds_2026.png)

> In the 'Open for Proposals' screen, scroll down and click 'Create New Proposal for NAISS Small/Medium Small' for the current year.
>
NAISS_small_example2026

### 6. Add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

In the 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

![In the 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'](./img/Create_new_proposal_2026.png)

> In the 'Create New Proposal for NAISS SENS Small 2024', add a project title and click 'Create new proposal'

After this, the procedure is straightforward.

![Resource available for a NAISS SENS Small project](./img/supr_naiss_create_new_proposal_for_naiss_sens_small_resources.png)
> Resource available for a NAISS SENS Small project.md)
> 
## images

![project_details_p1_2026](./img/project_details_p1_2026.md)
![choose_resources_bianca_2026](./img/choose_resources_bianca_2026.md)
![add_resource_bianca_2026](./img/add_resource_bianca_2026.md)
![storage_choice_bianca_2026](./img/storage_choice_bianca_2026.md)
![add_storage_cygnus_2026](./img/add_storage_cygnus_2026.md)
![add_storage_cygnus_nobackup_2026](./img/add_storage_cygnus_nobackup_2026.md)
![revisit_resources_bianca_2026](./img/revisit_resources_bianca_2026.md)
![edit_resource_bianca_2026](./img/edit_resource_bianca_2026.md)
![submission_bianca_2026](./img/submission_bianca_2026.md)
