docs/getting_started/setup_vpn.md, before:

# Setup a VPN

Some [UPPMAX clusters](../cluster_guides/uppmax_cluster.md) require you
to [have an IP address inside of SUNET](get_inside_sunet.md).
A virtual private network (VPN) allows one to do so: it will use the
Swedish university networks to connect to the UPPMAX clusters.

To be able to use a VPN to [get inside of SUNET](get_inside_sunet.md):

- For Uppsala University: [go to this page](https://www.uu.se/en/staff/service-and-tools/tools-and-guides/connect-to-the-network-remotely/connect-using-the-universitys-vpn-service)
- For Lund University: [go to this page](https://luservicedesk.service-now.com/support_en?id=kb_article_en&sys_id=a0d9ee21db74605020681ea605961927)
- For other Swedish universities, search their websites to get the required VPN credentials.

???- question "Where do I go if I am no longer affiliated with a Swedish university?"

    <!-- This is a question in RT ticket 299923 -->
    <!--- Reply: -->
    <!--- Rackham + 2FA -->
    <!--- Racham+2FA= 5min grace priod. ThinLinc to racham, then browser to Bianca, against our best practices -->

    In this case, one cannot use a VPN. Instead, log in to.

    This is yet unknown. Please [contact support](../support.md).


???- tip "Want a video to see how the UU VPN is used?"

    - [Use the UU VPN with 2FA](https://youtu.be/QEJTKvQoiVI)
    - [Use the UU VPN (yet without 2FA) to access the Bianca remote desktop website](https://youtu.be/Ni9nyCf7me8)

Commit message:

UU should provide Cisco AnyConnect VPN install instructions for Linux

docs/getting_started/setup_vpn.md, after:

# Setup a VPN

Some [UPPMAX clusters](../cluster_guides/uppmax_cluster.md) require you
to [have an IP address inside of SUNET](get_inside_sunet.md).
A virtual private network (VPN) allows one to do so: it will use the
Swedish university networks to connect to the UPPMAX clusters.

To be able to use a VPN to [get inside of SUNET](get_inside_sunet.md):

- For Uppsala University: 
    - Mac and Windows users: [go to this page](https://www.uu.se/en/staff/service-and-tools/tools-and-guides/connect-to-the-network-remotely/connect-using-the-universitys-vpn-service)
    - Linux users: [go to this page](https://its.gmu.edu/knowledge-base/how-to-install-cisco-secure-client-on-linux/) (which is not a UU page) 
- For Lund University: [go to this page](https://luservicedesk.service-now.com/support_en?id=kb_article_en&sys_id=a0d9ee21db74605020681ea605961927)
- For other Swedish universities, search their websites to get the required VPN credentials.

???- question "Where do I go if I am no longer affiliated with a Swedish university?"

    <!-- This is a question in RT ticket 299923 -->
    <!--- Reply: -->
    <!--- Rackham + 2FA -->
    <!--- Racham+2FA= 5min grace priod. ThinLinc to racham, then browser to Bianca, against our best practices -->

    In this case, one cannot use a VPN. Instead, log in to.

    This is yet unknown. Please [contact support](../support.md).


???- tip "Want a video to see how the UU VPN is used?"

    - [Use the UU VPN with 2FA](https://youtu.be/QEJTKvQoiVI)
    - [Use the UU VPN (yet without 2FA) to access the Bianca remote desktop website](https://youtu.be/Ni9nyCf7me8)
