docs/index.md, before:

---
template: home.html
---
<script
  async
  src="https://widget.kapa.ai/kapa-widget.bundle.js"
  data-website-id="88ce68c1-ce0d-452a-bb55-e05e3beaa240"
  data-project-name="UPPMAX AI chatbot"
  data-project-color="#6306B6"
  data-project-logo="./assets/UU_logo_vit.svg"
  data-modal-disclaimer="This is AI assistant is in development and may not always provide accurate information. Please submit your queries on https://supr.naiss.se/support.for the support team to look at."
></script>

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: 2.5em; font-weight: bold; margin-top: 20px;">
    Welcome to the UPPMAX documentation
</div>

<p align="center" width="100%">
    <img id="logo_light_mode" src="assets/UU_logo_color.svg" alt="drawing" width="200" >
    <img id="logo_dark_mode" src="assets/UU_logo_vit.svg" alt="drawing" width="200" >
</p>

<!--- The following code fails to align to center
[Get support](support.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary}
[Give anonymous feedback](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScu1zrUnXw2qq2dA0oJB72-nILVq5mwScq75N_u_7KH2NJznw/viewform?usp=sf_link){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[Apply for a project](getting_started/project_apply.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }


[:material-rocket-launch: Getting started](getting_started/get_started.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-rocket-launch: Software](software/overview.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-rocket-launch: Reset your UPPMAX password](getting_started/reset_uppmax_password.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-alert-box: Migration to Dardel](cluster_guides/dardel_migration.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[:material-rocket-launch: Go to the UPPMAX main page](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
--->


<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 20px;">
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/support/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">Get support</a>
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScu1zrUnXw2qq2dA0oJB72-nILVq5mwScq75N_u_7KH2NJznw/viewform?usp=sf_link" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">Give anonymous feedback</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/project_apply/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">Apply for a project</a>
</div>

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 20px;">
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/get_started/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Getting started</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/software/overview/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Software</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/reset_uppmax_password/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Reset your UPPMAX password</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/cluster_guides/dardel_migration/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">⚠️ Migration to Dardel</a>
</div>

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 20px;">
    <a href="https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Go to the UPPMAX main page</a>
</div>

Commit message:

adjust ai logo and color

docs/index.md, after:

---
template: home.html
---
<script
  async
  src="https://widget.kapa.ai/kapa-widget.bundle.js"
  data-website-id="88ce68c1-ce0d-452a-bb55-e05e3beaa240"
  data-project-name="UPPMAX"
  data-project-color="#D22B2B"
  data-project-logo="./assets/UU_logo_vit.svg"
  data-modal-image="./assets/UU_logo_color.svg"
  data-button-image="./assets/UU_logo_vit.svg"
  data-modal-disclaimer="This AI assistant is in development and may not always provide accurate information. Please submit your queries to the support team at https://supr.naiss.se/support"
></script>

<div style="text-align: center; font-size: 2.5em; font-weight: bold; margin-top: 20px;">
    Welcome to the UPPMAX documentation
</div>

<p align="center" width="100%">
    <img id="logo_light_mode" src="assets/UU_logo_color.svg" alt="drawing" width="200" >
    <img id="logo_dark_mode" src="assets/UU_logo_vit.svg" alt="drawing" width="200" >
</p>

<!--- The following code fails to align to center
[Get support](support.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary}
[Give anonymous feedback](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScu1zrUnXw2qq2dA0oJB72-nILVq5mwScq75N_u_7KH2NJznw/viewform?usp=sf_link){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[Apply for a project](getting_started/project_apply.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }


[:material-rocket-launch: Getting started](getting_started/get_started.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-rocket-launch: Software](software/overview.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-rocket-launch: Reset your UPPMAX password](getting_started/reset_uppmax_password.md){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
[:material-alert-box: Migration to Dardel](cluster_guides/dardel_migration.md){ .md-button .md-button--primary }

[:material-rocket-launch: Go to the UPPMAX main page](https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax){: .md-button .md-button--primary }
--->


<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 20px;">
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/support/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">Get support</a>
    <a href="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScu1zrUnXw2qq2dA0oJB72-nILVq5mwScq75N_u_7KH2NJznw/viewform?usp=sf_link" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">Give anonymous feedback</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/project_apply/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">Apply for a project</a>
</div>

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 20px;">
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/get_started/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Getting started</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/software/overview/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Software</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/getting_started/reset_uppmax_password/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Reset your UPPMAX password</a>
    <a href="https://docs.uppmax.uu.se/cluster_guides/dardel_migration/" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">⚠️ Migration to Dardel</a>
</div>

<div style="text-align: center; margin-top: 20px;">
    <a href="https://www.uu.se/en/centre/uppmax" class="md-button md-button--primary" style="text-decoration:none;">🚀 Go to the UPPMAX main page</a>
</div>
